docs/src/doe.md, before:

# DOE Stack
The Caliptra subsystem supports SPDM, Secure-SPDM over PCI Data Object Exchange (DOE) mailbox protocol. The following diagram gives the over view of the DOE stack.
![The DOE Tock stack](images/doe_tock_stack.svg)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Host as "Host(TSM)"
    participant SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM as "SoC PCI DOE Listener"
    participant MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER as "MCU DOE Mailbox Driver"
    participant DOE_CAPSULE as "DOE Capsule"
    participant SPDM_APP as "SPDM App"
    SPDM_APP -->> DOE_CAPSULE: App invokes receive_message<br> for SPDM or Secure-SPDM Data Object type 
    Host ->> Host: Host waits until<br> the `DOE Busy` bit is cleared in <br>DOE Status Register
    loop While there is remaining DOE object to send
        Host ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM  : Host starts sending DOE data object
        SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Prepare the message <br>in DOE Mailbox SRAM
        Note right of Host: Repeat until Host sets DOE Go bit
        Host ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Host writes `DOE Go` bit <br>in DOE Control Register<br> to indicate message ready
    end
    SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: Notify that a new DOE object<br> is available to consume
    MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER ->> DOE_CAPSULE: receive() callback

    alt if DOE object is `Data Object 0`
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Copy DOE object payload <br>into local buffer
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Handle DOE Discovery
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Prepare DOE Discovery response object
    else if DOE object is `Data Object 1 or 2`
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Copy DOE object payload <br>into app buffer
        DOE_CAPSULE -->> SPDM_APP: Invoke upcall to userspace<br> to receive() message
    end
    DOE_CAPSULE ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: set_receive_buffer()<br> to set the receive buffer for the next DOE object
    SPDM_APP ->> SPDM_APP: App processes message <br>and prepares DOE response
    SPDM_APP -->> DOE_CAPSULE: App invokes send_message <br>to send DOE response
    DOE_CAPSULE ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: invoke send_message()<br> to send the DOE response
    MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Notify that DOE response is ready to send
    SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> Host: Set `Data Object Ready` bit in<br> DOE Status Register
```
## DOE Capsule
The DOE capsule implements the system calls for the user space applications to send and receive the DOE data objects.

During board initialization, a `DoeDriver` instance is created and registered with a unique driver number. This instance manages the handling of DOE Discovery (Data Object Type 0), SPDM (Data Object Type 1), and Secure-SPDM (Data Object Type 2) data objects.


```Rust

/// PCI-SIG Vendor ID that defined the data object type
const PCI_SIG_VENDOR_ID: u16 = 0x0001;
/// Data Object Protocol
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_DOE_DISCOVERY: u8 = 0x00;
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_CMA_SPDM: u8 = 0x01;
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_SECURE_CMA_SPDM: u8 = 0x02;


/// IDs for subscribe calls
mod upcall {
    /// Callback for when the message is received
    pub const RECEIVED_SPDM_MESSAGE: usize = 0;
    pub const RECEIVED_SECURE_SPDM_MESSAGE: usize = 1;

    /// Callback for when the message is transmitted.
    pub const MESSAGE_TRANSMITTED: usize = 2;

    /// Number of upcalls
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 3;
}

/// IDs for read-only allow buffers
mod ro_allow {
    /// Buffer for the message to be transmitted
    pub const MESSAGE_WRITE: usize = 0;

    /// Number of read-only allow buffers
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 1;
}

/// IDs for read-write allow buffers
mod rw_allow {
    /// Buffer for the message to be received
    pub const SPDM_MESSAGE: u32 = 0;
    pub const SECURE_SPDM_MESSAGE: u32 = 1;

    /// Number of read-write allow buffers
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 2;
}

#[derive(Default)]
pub struct App {
    pending_rx_spdm: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a SPDM message is pending
    pending_rx_secure_spdm: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a Secure-SPDM message is pending
    pending_tx: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a message is pending to be sent
}

pub struct DoeDriver {
    doe_mailbox: & dyn DoeMailbox,
    apps: Grant<
        App,
        UpcallCount<{ upcall::COUNT }>,
        AllowRoCount<{ ro_allow::COUNT }>,
        AllowRwCount<{ rw_allow::COUNT }>,
    >,
    kernel_msg_buf: MapCell<SubSliceMut<'static, u8>>, // For DOE Discovery handling
    current_app: Cell<Option<ProcessId>>,
}

```

## DOE Mailbox Trait
The DOE mailbox trait is a standard interface to send and receive the DOE messages. The trait is implemented by the SoC specific MCU DOE Mailbox peripheral driver and is used to send and receive the DOE messages over the PCIe bus.

```Rust
/// MAX PCI-DOE DATA OBJECT LENGTH
const MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN: usize = 1 << 18; // In DWORDS
const MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN_BYTES: usize = MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN * 4; // In Bytes

pub trait DoeMailboxTxClient {
    /// Called when the DOE message transmission is done.
    fn send_done(&self, tx_buf: &'static mut [u8], result: Result<(), ErrorCode>);
}

pub trait DoeMailboxRxClient {
    /// Called when a DOE message is received. 
    fn receive(&self, rx_buf: &'static mut [u8], len: usize) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;
}


pub trait DoeMailbox {
    /// Sets the transmit and receive clients for the DOE mailbox.
    fn set_tx_client(&self, client: &'static dyn DoeMailboxTxClient);
    fn set_rx_client(&self, client: &'static dyn DoeMailboxRxClient);

    /// Sets the buffer used for receiving incoming DOE messages.
    /// This function should be called by the Rx client upon receiving the `receive()` callback.
    fn set_receive_buffer(&self, rx_buf: &'static mut [u8]);

    /// Gets the maximum size of the message that can be sent or received over DOE Mailbox.
    fn get_max_message_size(&self) -> usize;

    /// Enable the DOE mailbox driver.
    fn enable(&self) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;

    /// Disable the DOE mailbox driver.
    fn disable(&self) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;

    /// Send message to be transmitted over the DOE mailbox.
    /// 
    /// # Arguments
    /// * `doe_hdr` - A reference to the DOE header, this is copied into the mailbox at the start of the message.
    /// * `doe_payload` - A reference to the DOE payload, this is copied into the mailbox after the header.
    /// * `payload_len` - The length of the payload in bytes
    fn transmit_message(&self, doe_hdr: &'static [u8; 8], doe_payload: &'static mut [u8], payload_len: usize) -> Result<(), (ErrorCode, &'static mut [u8])>;
}

Commit message:

update send and receive stack diagrams

docs/src/doe.md, after:

# DOE Stack
The Caliptra subsystem supports SPDM, Secure-SPDM over PCI Data Object Exchange (DOE) mailbox protocol. The following diagram gives the over view of the DOE send and receive stack.

DOE Receive stack:

![The DOE Tock receive stack](images/doe_tock_receive.svg)


DOE Send stack:

![The DOE Tock send stack](images/doe_tock_send.svg)

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Host as "Host(TSM)"
    participant SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM as "SoC PCI DOE Listener"
    participant MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER as "MCU DOE Mailbox Driver"
    participant DOE_CAPSULE as "DOE Capsule"
    participant SPDM_APP as "SPDM App"
    SPDM_APP -->> DOE_CAPSULE: App invokes receive_message<br> for SPDM or Secure-SPDM Data Object type 
    Host ->> Host: Host waits until<br> the `DOE Busy` bit is cleared in <br>DOE Status Register
    loop While there is remaining DOE object to send
        Host ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM  : Host starts sending DOE data object
        SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Prepare the message <br>in DOE Mailbox SRAM
        Note right of Host: Repeat until Host sets DOE Go bit
        Host ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Host writes `DOE Go` bit <br>in DOE Control Register<br> to indicate message ready
    end
    SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: Notify that a new DOE object<br> is available to consume
    MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER ->> DOE_CAPSULE: receive() callback

    alt if DOE object is `Data Object 0`
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Copy DOE object payload <br>into local buffer
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Handle DOE Discovery
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Prepare DOE Discovery response object
    else if DOE object is `Data Object 1 or 2`
        DOE_CAPSULE ->> DOE_CAPSULE: Copy DOE object payload <br>into app buffer
        DOE_CAPSULE -->> SPDM_APP: Invoke upcall to userspace<br> to receive() message
    end
    DOE_CAPSULE ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: set_receive_buffer()<br> to set the receive buffer for the next DOE object
    SPDM_APP ->> SPDM_APP: App processes message <br>and prepares DOE response
    SPDM_APP -->> DOE_CAPSULE: App invokes send_message <br>to send DOE response
    DOE_CAPSULE ->> MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER: invoke send_message()<br> to send the DOE response
    MCU_DOE_MBOX_DRIVER ->> SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM: Notify that DOE response is ready to send
    SoC_PCI_DOE_FSM ->> Host: Set `Data Object Ready` bit in<br> DOE Status Register
```
## DOE Capsule
The DOE capsule implements the system calls for the user space applications to send and receive the DOE data objects.

During board initialization, a `DoeDriver` instance is created and registered with a unique driver number. This instance manages the handling of DOE Discovery (Data Object Type 0), SPDM (Data Object Type 1), and Secure-SPDM (Data Object Type 2) data objects.


```Rust

/// PCI-SIG Vendor ID that defined the data object type
const PCI_SIG_VENDOR_ID: u16 = 0x0001;
/// Data Object Protocol
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_DOE_DISCOVERY: u8 = 0x00;
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_CMA_SPDM: u8 = 0x01;
const DATA_OBJECT_PROTOCOL_SECURE_CMA_SPDM: u8 = 0x02;


/// IDs for subscribe calls
mod upcall {
    /// Callback for when the message is received
    pub const RECEIVED_SPDM_MESSAGE: usize = 0;
    pub const RECEIVED_SECURE_SPDM_MESSAGE: usize = 1;

    /// Callback for when the message is transmitted.
    pub const MESSAGE_TRANSMITTED: usize = 2;

    /// Number of upcalls
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 3;
}

/// IDs for read-only allow buffers
mod ro_allow {
    /// Buffer for the message to be transmitted
    pub const MESSAGE_WRITE: usize = 0;

    /// Number of read-only allow buffers
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 1;
}

/// IDs for read-write allow buffers
mod rw_allow {
    /// Buffer for the message to be received
    pub const SPDM_MESSAGE: u32 = 0;
    pub const SECURE_SPDM_MESSAGE: u32 = 1;

    /// Number of read-write allow buffers
    pub const COUNT: u8 = 2;
}

#[derive(Default)]
pub struct App {
    pending_rx_spdm: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a SPDM message is pending
    pending_rx_secure_spdm: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a Secure-SPDM message is pending
    pending_tx: Option<bool>, // Indicates if a message is pending to be sent
}

pub struct DoeDriver {
    doe_mailbox: & dyn DoeMailbox,
    apps: Grant<
        App,
        UpcallCount<{ upcall::COUNT }>,
        AllowRoCount<{ ro_allow::COUNT }>,
        AllowRwCount<{ rw_allow::COUNT }>,
    >,
    kernel_msg_buf: MapCell<SubSliceMut<'static, u8>>, // For DOE Discovery handling
    current_app: Cell<Option<ProcessId>>,
}

```

## DOE Mailbox Trait
The DOE mailbox trait is a standard interface to send and receive the DOE messages. The trait is implemented by the SoC specific MCU DOE Mailbox peripheral driver and is used to send and receive the DOE messages over the PCIe bus.

```Rust
/// MAX PCI-DOE DATA OBJECT LENGTH
const MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN: usize = 1 << 18; // In DWORDS
const MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN_BYTES: usize = MAX_PCI_DOE_LEN * 4; // In Bytes

pub trait DoeMailboxTxClient {
    /// Called when the DOE message transmission is done.
    fn send_done(&self, tx_buf: &'static mut [u8], result: Result<(), ErrorCode>);
}

pub trait DoeMailboxRxClient {
    /// Called when a DOE message is received. 
    fn receive(&self, rx_buf: &'static mut [u8], len: usize) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;
}


pub trait DoeMailbox {
    /// Sets the transmit and receive clients for the DOE mailbox.
    fn set_tx_client(&self, client: &'static dyn DoeMailboxTxClient);
    fn set_rx_client(&self, client: &'static dyn DoeMailboxRxClient);

    /// Sets the buffer used for receiving incoming DOE messages.
    /// This function should be called by the Rx client upon receiving the `receive()` callback.
    fn set_receive_buffer(&self, rx_buf: &'static mut [u8]);

    /// Gets the maximum size of the message that can be sent or received over DOE Mailbox.
    fn get_max_message_size(&self) -> usize;

    /// Enable the DOE mailbox driver.
    fn enable(&self) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;

    /// Disable the DOE mailbox driver.
    fn disable(&self) -> Result<(), ErrorCode>;

    /// Send message to be transmitted over the DOE mailbox.
    /// 
    /// # Arguments
    /// * `doe_hdr` - A reference to the DOE header, this is copied into the mailbox at the start of the message.
    /// * `doe_payload` - A reference to the DOE payload, this is copied into the mailbox after the header.
    /// * `payload_len` - The length of the payload in bytes
    fn transmit_message(&self, doe_hdr: &'static [u8; 8], doe_payload: &'static mut [u8], payload_len: usize) -> Result<(), (ErrorCode, &'static mut [u8])>;
}
