docs/src/fpga.md, before:

# Working with an FPGA

This section covers how to perform common MCU flows on an FPGA. You can always fallback to working on the FPGA directly, as it is an ARM Linux host, albeit low powered.

## Pre Requisites

### Host System 

The machine that is used for development and cross compilation should have:

- Rust
- Docker
  - Make sure you pull the FPGA build image: `$ docker pull ghcr.io/chipsalliance/caliptra-build-image:latest` 
- rsync
- git

**NOTE:** Setup rootless docker. Here are the steps [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/). 

### FPGA System 

The FPGA should have the following installed (If you are not using a Caliptra image):

- rsync
- git
- make
- gcc
- [cargo-nextest](https://github.com/nextest-rs/nextest)
  - `cargo-nextest` should be useable by the root user. Consider installing it to the system path `/usr/bin`.

**Suggestion**: Download the latest FPGA Image from the Caliptra-SW FPGA Image build [job](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-sw/actions/workflows/fpga-image.yml). This ensures you are testing with the same system used in the FPGA CI. Developer images have a "-dev" suffix.

## Suggested Development Flow

Prefer to develop on your main machine and use xtask to test your changes on the FPGA via ssh.

### Setup SSH config

xtask will access the FPGA over SSH. You will need an SSH config to define how to do this.

This config should be added to `~/.ssh/config`.

```
Host <FPGA-NAME> # Update me!
  Hostname <FPGA-IP-ADDRESS> # Update me!
  User ubuntu # Use "root" on CI image.

```

## Developing over SSH

Most `xtask-fpga fpga` commands support running over SSH. This is the preferred and tested path. The SSH target is passed with the `--target-host` flag.

The xtask tool will cross-compile and then copy binaries to the FPGA over the SSH connection.

## Bitstream

### Caliptra Images

The Caliptra images use a segmented bitstream. The bitstream is automatically loaded by the `bootstrap` command, based on the FPGA configuration type.

NOTE: The core & subsystem base images are incompatible, and you must be sure to use the correct base image for the configuration you are using.

For example:

- core-on-subsystem => Subsystem base image
- subsystem => Subsystem base image
- core => Core base image

#### Bitstream source

The subsystem bitstream is pulled from the [subsystem.toml](../../hw/fpga/bitstream_manifests/subsystem.toml). The core bitstream is pulled from "core.toml" from the active `caliptra-sw` folder.

### Ubuntu Image

Follow the instructions in `hw/fpga/README.md` on building and loading a bitstream.

## FPGA bootstrap

The FPGA needs to be bootstrapped each time it is booted. This ensures that the kernel modules we use in this repo are present.

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to bootstrap the FPGA.

### Configurations

The xtask flows supports three different configurations:

* "Subsystem": This mode configures the FPGA to run Caliptra MCU flows.
* "Core-on-Subsystem": This mode configures the FPGA to run Caliptra-SW flows for a subsystem Caliptra.
* "Core": This mode allows running Caliptra in Core mode on the FPGA.
  * Note: You will need to override caliptra-sw to point to a local directory in the workspace [Cargo.toml](../../Cargo.toml).

For example:

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap # The default configration is subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration core-on-subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration core
```

## Cross compiling

### Firmware

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to create a firmware bundle. Using the `--target-host` flag will automatically copy the firmware to the FPGA host.

This command should be re-run after making any firmware changes.

#### Filter Caliptra Core firmeware

To improve build time when using the `core-on-subsystem` FPGA configuration, you can use the `fw-id` parameter to filter out firmware that you are uninterested in.

For example, the following only builds the Caliptra Core ROM

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga build --fw-id caliptra-rom
```

#### Only build MCU firmware

For configurations that additionally build Caliptra Core firmware, you can disable this with the `--mcu` flag.

For example:

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga build --mcu
```

### Test Binaries

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to create a test archive. Using the `--target-host` flag will automatically copy the test binaries to the FPGA host.

This command should be re-run after making any test changes.

# Test Workflow

## FPGA Bootstrapping and FW/Test Building

A developer verifying changes against an FPGA should use the following sequence of commands to bootstrap their FPGA board by:
1. downloading the caliptra-mcu-sw repo on their board,
2. building all Caliptra Core and MCU firmware collateral, and
3. building all FPGA tests for the FPGA environment.

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Run this only once per boot.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build firmware. Re-run every time firmware changes.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build test binaries. Re-run every time tests change.
```

## Dispatching all FPGA Tests

A developer verifying changes against an FPGA can dispatch the entire FPGA test in a single shot by running:

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME
```

## Dispatching a Single FPGA Test

A developer that only wishes to run a single test on the FPGA can replace the last command with the following:

```
# For example:
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME \
    --test-filter="package(mcu-hw-model) and test(test_hash_token)"
```

The test filter flag is a wrapper for a Cargo Nextest [filter set](https://nexte.st/docs/filtersets/).

# Test Caliptra Core on FPGA

The xtask workflow also supports running caliptra-sw tests on a subsystem FPGA.

## Bootstrap and Build Test Binaries / FW

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME --configuration core-on-subsystem # Run this only once per boot. Re-run bootstrap to change configurations
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME  # Build firmware. Re-run every time firmware changes.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build test binaries. Re-run every time tests change.
```

# Running on FPGA

NOTE: The `run` command does not yet support running over ssh.

### Firmware files

You can build firmware binaries (ROM, runtime, manifest, etc.) using a combination of:

* `cargo xtask-fpga rom-build --platform fpga`
* `cargo xtask-fpga runtime-build --platform fpga`
* `cargo xtask-fpga all-build --platform fpga`

The `all-build` command will build Caliptra ROM, Caliptra firmware bundle, MCU ROM, MCU runtime, and the SoC manifest and package them all together in a ZIP file, which the `fpga-run` xtask can run.

These commands can be run on any host. It is not recommended to run them on the FPGA host as it is very slow (the build can take over an hour the first time); instead it is better to run the command on a different host and use `scp` or `rsync` to copy the ZIP in.

## Running ROM and firmware

`cargo xtask-fpga fpga-run` or `./xtask-bin fpga-run` can be used to run ROMs and firmware, either directly or from a ZIP file, e.g.,

```shell
./xtask-bin fpga-run --zip all-fw.zip
```

It also supports additional command-line options for testing various flows.

## UDS Provisioning

### Preliminaries

1. Build OpenOCD 0.12.0 with `--enable-sysfsgpio`.
2. Install gdb-multiarch
3. Run a ROM flow with a blank OTP memory to transition the lifecycle state to `TestUnlocked0`.
4. Run a ROM to burn lifecycle tokens for the other transitions.
5. Run a ROM flow to transition the lifecycle state to `Dev` (this maps to the Manufacturing device lifecycle for Caliptra).
6. Start a run with the bootfsm_break set to 1.
7. Start the OpenOCD server:

```
sudo openocd --file openocd_caliptra.txt
```

8. Connect to OpenOCD

```
telnet localhost 4444
```

9. Verify connectivity in telnet:

```
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_read 0x74
0xcccccccc
```

10. Write the request
```
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_write 0x70 4
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_write 0x61 1
```

## OTP

There is an example fully provisioned (UDS and FE burned and transitioned into
production) `.vmem` file for loading into the OTP via the `--otp` in the
repository in
[`otp-prod-fe.vmem`](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-mcu-sw/blob/main/otp-prod-fe.mem).

Commit message:

[xtask-fpga]: Clean up docker code & add support for podman
Now prefers podman and falls back to docker.

Split docker commands into helper types to replace the large strings.

docs/src/fpga.md, after:

# Working with an FPGA

This section covers how to perform common MCU flows on an FPGA. You can always fallback to working on the FPGA directly, as it is an ARM Linux host, albeit low powered.

## Pre Requisites

### Host System 

The machine that is used for development and cross compilation should have:

- Rust
- Podman
  - Alternatively you can use docker, but it will need to support rootless commands. Here are the steps [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/rootless/).
  - Make sure you pull the FPGA build image: `$ podman pull ghcr.io/chipsalliance/caliptra-build-image:latest` or `$ docker pull ghcr.io/chipsalliance/caliptra-build-image:latest` 
- rsync
- git

### FPGA System 

The FPGA should have the following installed (If you are not using a Caliptra image):

- rsync
- git
- make
- gcc
- [cargo-nextest](https://github.com/nextest-rs/nextest)
  - `cargo-nextest` should be useable by the root user. Consider installing it to the system path `/usr/bin`.

**Suggestion**: Download the latest FPGA Image from the Caliptra-SW FPGA Image build [job](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-sw/actions/workflows/fpga-image.yml). This ensures you are testing with the same system used in the FPGA CI. Developer images have a "-dev" suffix.

## Suggested Development Flow

Prefer to develop on your main machine and use xtask to test your changes on the FPGA via ssh.

### Setup SSH config

xtask will access the FPGA over SSH. You will need an SSH config to define how to do this.

This config should be added to `~/.ssh/config`.

```
Host <FPGA-NAME> # Update me!
  Hostname <FPGA-IP-ADDRESS> # Update me!
  User ubuntu # Use "root" on CI image.

```

## Developing over SSH

Most `xtask-fpga fpga` commands support running over SSH. This is the preferred and tested path. The SSH target is passed with the `--target-host` flag.

The xtask tool will cross-compile and then copy binaries to the FPGA over the SSH connection.

## Bitstream

### Caliptra Images

The Caliptra images use a segmented bitstream. The bitstream is automatically loaded by the `bootstrap` command, based on the FPGA configuration type.

NOTE: The core & subsystem base images are incompatible, and you must be sure to use the correct base image for the configuration you are using.

For example:

- core-on-subsystem => Subsystem base image
- subsystem => Subsystem base image
- core => Core base image

#### Bitstream source

The subsystem bitstream is pulled from the [subsystem.toml](../../hw/fpga/bitstream_manifests/subsystem.toml). The core bitstream is pulled from "core.toml" from the active `caliptra-sw` folder.

### Ubuntu Image

Follow the instructions in `hw/fpga/README.md` on building and loading a bitstream.

## FPGA bootstrap

The FPGA needs to be bootstrapped each time it is booted. This ensures that the kernel modules we use in this repo are present.

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to bootstrap the FPGA.

### Configurations

The xtask flows supports three different configurations:

* "Subsystem": This mode configures the FPGA to run Caliptra MCU flows.
* "Core-on-Subsystem": This mode configures the FPGA to run Caliptra-SW flows for a subsystem Caliptra.
* "Core": This mode allows running Caliptra in Core mode on the FPGA.
  * Note: You will need to override caliptra-sw to point to a local directory in the workspace [Cargo.toml](../../Cargo.toml).

For example:

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap # The default configration is subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration core-on-subsystem
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --configuration core
```

## Cross compiling

### Firmware

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to create a firmware bundle. Using the `--target-host` flag will automatically copy the firmware to the FPGA host.

This command should be re-run after making any firmware changes.

#### Filter Caliptra Core firmeware

To improve build time when using the `core-on-subsystem` FPGA configuration, you can use the `fw-id` parameter to filter out firmware that you are uninterested in.

For example, the following only builds the Caliptra Core ROM

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga build --fw-id caliptra-rom
```

#### Only build MCU firmware

For configurations that additionally build Caliptra Core firmware, you can disable this with the `--mcu` flag.

For example:

```sh
$ cargo xtask-fpga build --mcu
```

### Test Binaries

Run `cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME` to create a test archive. Using the `--target-host` flag will automatically copy the test binaries to the FPGA host.

This command should be re-run after making any test changes.

# Test Workflow

## FPGA Bootstrapping and FW/Test Building

A developer verifying changes against an FPGA should use the following sequence of commands to bootstrap their FPGA board by:
1. downloading the caliptra-mcu-sw repo on their board,
2. building all Caliptra Core and MCU firmware collateral, and
3. building all FPGA tests for the FPGA environment.

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Run this only once per boot.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build firmware. Re-run every time firmware changes.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build test binaries. Re-run every time tests change.
```

## Dispatching all FPGA Tests

A developer verifying changes against an FPGA can dispatch the entire FPGA test in a single shot by running:

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME
```

## Dispatching a Single FPGA Test

A developer that only wishes to run a single test on the FPGA can replace the last command with the following:

```
# For example:
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME \
    --test-filter="package(mcu-hw-model) and test(test_hash_token)"
```

The test filter flag is a wrapper for a Cargo Nextest [filter set](https://nexte.st/docs/filtersets/).

# Test Caliptra Core on FPGA

The xtask workflow also supports running caliptra-sw tests on a subsystem FPGA.

## Bootstrap and Build Test Binaries / FW

```
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga bootstrap --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME --configuration core-on-subsystem # Run this only once per boot. Re-run bootstrap to change configurations
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME  # Build firmware. Re-run every time firmware changes.
$ cargo xtask-fpga fpga build-test --target-host $SSH-FPGA-NAME # Build test binaries. Re-run every time tests change.
```

# Running on FPGA

NOTE: The `run` command does not yet support running over ssh.

### Firmware files

You can build firmware binaries (ROM, runtime, manifest, etc.) using a combination of:

* `cargo xtask-fpga rom-build --platform fpga`
* `cargo xtask-fpga runtime-build --platform fpga`
* `cargo xtask-fpga all-build --platform fpga`

The `all-build` command will build Caliptra ROM, Caliptra firmware bundle, MCU ROM, MCU runtime, and the SoC manifest and package them all together in a ZIP file, which the `fpga-run` xtask can run.

These commands can be run on any host. It is not recommended to run them on the FPGA host as it is very slow (the build can take over an hour the first time); instead it is better to run the command on a different host and use `scp` or `rsync` to copy the ZIP in.

## Running ROM and firmware

`cargo xtask-fpga fpga-run` or `./xtask-bin fpga-run` can be used to run ROMs and firmware, either directly or from a ZIP file, e.g.,

```shell
./xtask-bin fpga-run --zip all-fw.zip
```

It also supports additional command-line options for testing various flows.

## UDS Provisioning

### Preliminaries

1. Build OpenOCD 0.12.0 with `--enable-sysfsgpio`.
2. Install gdb-multiarch
3. Run a ROM flow with a blank OTP memory to transition the lifecycle state to `TestUnlocked0`.
4. Run a ROM to burn lifecycle tokens for the other transitions.
5. Run a ROM flow to transition the lifecycle state to `Dev` (this maps to the Manufacturing device lifecycle for Caliptra).
6. Start a run with the bootfsm_break set to 1.
7. Start the OpenOCD server:

```
sudo openocd --file openocd_caliptra.txt
```

8. Connect to OpenOCD

```
telnet localhost 4444
```

9. Verify connectivity in telnet:

```
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_read 0x74
0xcccccccc
```

10. Write the request
```
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_write 0x70 4
> riscv.cpu riscv dmi_write 0x61 1
```

## OTP

There is an example fully provisioned (UDS and FE burned and transitioned into
production) `.vmem` file for loading into the OTP via the `--otp` in the
repository in
[`otp-prod-fe.vmem`](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-mcu-sw/blob/main/otp-prod-fe.mem).
